This Topic illustrates some rules, syntax and common function used in python.

As you keep progressing you would get a better understanding of them.



Example: First Python program.

print("Hello World")
- print() is a function used in python to output values to the user.

Output
Hello World

Python Identifiers

A Python identifier is a name used to identify a variable, function, class, module or other object.

A variable name is one example of an identifier.

Identifiers have the following form:

Identifiers must contain at least one character.

An identifier starts with a letter A to Z or a to z or an underscore (_) followed by zero or more letters, underscores and digits (0 to 9).

Python does not allow punctuation characters such as @, $, and % within identifiers.

Python is a case sensitive programming language. i.e shapes and SHAPES are different Identifiers.

A reserved word cannot be used as an identifier

Spaces aren't permitted in identifiers

Examples of valid and invalid identifiers:
a, x1, age, shopping_list, FLAG, _count

Examples of Invalid identifiers
shopping-list
(dash is not a legal symbol in an identifier)

class
(class is a reserved word).

first entry
(space is not a legal symbol in an identifier),

$2
(Dollar sign is not a legal symbol in an identifier)



Python reserves a number of words for special use, called reserved words or keywords

There are 35 keywords in Python.

and, del, from, None, try, as, elif, global, nonlocal, True,
assert, else, if, not, while, break, except, import, or, with
class, False, in, pass, yield, continue, finally, is, raise,
def, for, lambda, return

Multi-Line Statements


name = 'toby'
sentence = "This is a sentence."
paragraph = """This is a paragraph. It is
made up of multiple lines and sentences."""


Comments in Python

A hash sign (#) that is not inside a string literal is the beginning of a comment. All
characters after the #, up to the end of the physical line, are part of the comment and the
Python interpreter ignores them.


# This is a comment \n# Another comment


Which combination is are not valid Python Keywords?

let, pass, break

def, class, continue,

raise, try, and


Which of the following combination Identifiers are valid ?

A , _A , tel_no

1A , tel-no, age

a g e , tel_no, age


Which Symbol is used to denote a Comment in Python?

%

&

#


Python supports multi-line comments?
True
False
Not sure


Which function is used to display values to the console?

print()

display()

console.log()
















